Q. What is Cloud? 

Ans. The cloud is a set of remotely hosted computing resources used by a client, whether a web page, mobile app, or traditional desktop application, for storage and computing power.
         For average users, the "cloud" is the presentation of the end services.


Q. Advantages of Cloud 

Ans.

Cost Savings
Cost saving is the biggest benefit of cloud computing. It helps you to save substantial capital cost as it does not need any physical hardware investments. Also, you do not need trained personnel to maintain the hardware. The buying and managing of equipment is done by the cloud service provider.

Strategic edge
Cloud computing offers a competitive edge over your competitors. It helps you to access the latest and applications any time without spending your time and money on installations.

High Speed
Cloud computing allows you to deploy your service quickly in fewer clicks. This faster deployment allows you to get the resources required for your system within fewer minutes.

Back-up and restore data
Once the data is stored in a Cloud, it is easier to get the back-up and recovery of that, which is otherwise very time taking process on-premise.

Automatic Software Integration
In the cloud, software integration is something that occurs automatically. Therefore, you don't need to take additional efforts to customize and integrate your applications as per your preferences.

Reliability
Reliability is one of the biggest pluses of cloud computing. You can always get instantly updated about the changes.

Mobility
Employees who are working on the premises or at the remote locations can easily access all the could services. All they need is an Internet connectivity.

Unlimited storage capacity
The cloud offers almost limitless storage capacity. At any time you can quickly expand your storage capacity with very nominal monthly fees.

Collaboration
The cloud computing platform helps employees who are located in different geographies to collaborate in a highly convenient and secure manner.